So the question was how do you
do accessibility in WebXR?
It is a tough one.
We are trying to figure
this out ourselves.
But with XR itself Is only a way for the
BPI to give you the sensor information for
you to create a immersive web experience.
So basically, WebXR is not in itself
rendering anything on your screen.
You are doing that with WebGR or you're
doing that with Babylon or Three.js.
But you are having access to
it through the WebXR APIs.
So, since we have nothing
to do with the content,
it is hard for us to have any
enforced way of having accessibility.
But one of the things that is coming for
WebXR is layers which is a way of adding
a layer of HTML on top of the Canvas,
and maybe that layer can
follow you everywhere.
Having layers allows you to
have some alt text as well.
So you could connect those
layers to maybe the objects and
make it accessible that way.
But unfortunately,
that all depends on the developer itself,
which is a hard situation
to be in because,
It is already, you have to cover so
many situations with any AR or
VR experiences, especially for
AR, you don't know the space,
you don't know any of
the needs of the user.
So that's a huge problem.
But having said that, there are really
cool things that you could do for
accessibility, if that's your purpose.
One of them is, I'm going to search for
is seeing AI from one of our coworkers.
And thank you for asking this.
I love showing this video.
>> I'm Saqib Shaikh.
I lost my sight when I was seven,
and shortly after that,
I went to a school for the blind.
And that's where it was
introduced to talking computers.
And that really opened up a whole
new world of opportunities.
I joined Microsoft ten years
ago as a software engineer.
I love making things which
improve people's lives.
And one of the things I've always dreamt
of since I was at university was this
idea of something that could tell you at
any moment what's going on around you.
[MUSIC]
>> I think it's a man jumping in
the air doing a trick on a skateboard.
[MUSIC]
>> I teamed up with like minded engineers
to make an app which lets you know who and
what is around you.
It's based on top of
the Microsoft intelligence APIs,
which makes it so
much easier to make this kind of thing.
The app runs on smartphones but
also on the Pivothead smart glasses.
When you're talking to a bigger group,
sometimes you can talk and talk and
there's no response and you think,
is everyone listening really well, or
are they half asleep?
And you never know.
>> I see two faces,
40 year old man with a beard looking
surprised 20 year old woman looking happy.
>> The app can describe the general age
and gender of the people around me and
what their emotions are,
which is incredible.
One of the things that's most useful about
the app is the ability to read our text.
>> Hello, good afternoon,
here's your menu.
>> Okay, thank you.
I can use the app on my phone to
take a picture of the menu and
it's gonna guide me on how
to take that correct photo.
>> Move camera to the bottom right and
away from the document.
>> And then it'll recognize the text.
Read me the headings.
>> I see Appetizers, Salads,
Paninis, Pizzas, Pastas.
>> Years ago, this was science fiction.
I never thought it would be something
that you could actually do.
But artificial intelligence is
improving at an ever faster rate and
I'm really excited to see
where we can take this.
As engineers, we're always standing
on the shoulders of giants,
building on top of what went before.
And in this case,
we've taken years of research from
Microsoft Research to pull this off.
>> I think it's a young girl throwing
an orange frisbee in the park.
>> For me, it's about taking that far off
dream and building it one step at a time.
I think this is just the beginning.
[MUSIC]
>> This is one of the applications
that shows the potential of AR and
how useful it could be.
And anytime you build something
that is accessible and for
the purpose of accessibility,
you are making your application much
more usable for everybody else.
Interestingly, for example, the typewriter
was invented for a blind person.
And there are all kinds of things
that we have in our life today that
we use daily was created for
making somebody's life much better,
someone who needs
the accessibility feature.
So that's something that I'm very
passionate about, so thank you for asking.
There's so much opportunity, but
in terms of tooling, we need a lot.
One of the things as
the community group at W3C,
we want to incubate these kind of ideas,
these kind of resources to make
it much easier for people.
And if you join our group,
you would end up getting the emails for
our meetings and then maybe one day,
we'll just all come together and
build great WebXR accessibility tools.
One of the things that we have here is
a group that that we do is for example,
the examples, Immersive Web Weekly is our
newsletter that we send out every week.
And you can submit your blog posts or
your applications to be part of
the Immersive Web Weekly as well.
And we also have tools
like WebXR input profiles.
This is one of the cool things
that we asked the manufacturers
to have the input devices
like the hand controls.
And so, depending on your user's device,
you can send some hand
input controller model,
3D model that matches their device.
Patrick here said if you are someone
who is not able to move,
it is really hard to have VR experiences,
which is true.
But at the same time if you give
your user the opportunity to have
the same experience, for example,
standing up, moving around,
plus sitting down and not moving
around and be able to, for example,
transfer from one location to the other
without having to actually move those,
maybe not all, but
some will benefit from that.
And for that, one thing I always
want to say is have as many
options as possible for your users.
For example, with eye tracking,
you can help people to write or
communicate a little bit better.
And instead of having to walk a distance,
you can create movements
with your controllers that
will help them to move along.
One other thing that is
possible is with spatial audio.
Saqib here created that app,
Seeing AI, and
it's the most popular app for
visually impaired in US.
And last time I saw him,
he was adding some spatial audio.
So with spatial anchors,
you are able to leave kind of
like breadcrumbs along the way.
And people can listen to it and say,
okay, this is coming from this site and
if I follow it, I end up going
to the location that I want to.
And imagine for a person who is not
able to see going into a new building.
Saqib himself moved to
Seattle recently from London.
There's just so much to learn.
And every time you go into a building,
where's the bathroom?
How are you going to figure
it out in a big place?
With little things like that,
we can create a much more
accessible world, hopefully.
But the challenge is we have no text.
And we don't know the objects
that are going to be there.
So it's really hard to create
some spec around it to say,
these are the rules that
you're going to follow.
So, [LAUGH] if you're
interested in the subject,
there's also this really great
organisation called XR Access.
They do a lot of research and
they have a lot of resources and
also they are working group.
They come together and work on
different parts of the accessibility.
Any other app ideas that is
inspired from today hopefully?
And please do let me know
through social media or
Twitter, wherever you would like,
what did you think about Babylon
versus Aframe or Three.js,
and what kind of Resources
that you are interested in.
Cool.
It looks like that's end of our questions.
Thank you everyone for your attention.
Here is my Slides, WebXR slides, and
you can find all the repositories and
all of the resources that we covered
today, and hope to see you next time.